[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY OSMANI: So Matt,
I'm working on a new web
app for lonely people.
MATT GAUNT: OK.
What does it do?
What is it called?
ADDY OSMANI: It's called
"Words With Cats."
Now-- Words With Cats.
It's a brilliant name.
Now, I want to show an icon
on my phone's home screen,
if someone launches
this, and I also
want to be able to show
like an icon or some visual
in a splash screen.
MATT GAUNT: Of a cat reading
a dictionary, or something?
ADDY OSMANI: A cat reading--
you're 're a thought leader.
How can I get that done?
MATT GAUNT: So Chrome now has
the add to home screen stuff.
So, basically, if you meet
a certain set of criteria
when a user is basically
engaged in your web app,
it will come a little banner
saying, hey, would to add this
to your home screen.
So, you basically
need to be on HBS,
and to have a service
worker, and you
need a web app manifest.
And then after that
it's basically,
depending on the user coming
back a couple of times,
then it will show the banner.
So the web app manifest
is the main thing
that you need, to
enable all of this,
along with the other bits.
But the manifest is just
a JSON file at that point.
ADDY OSMANI: Cool.
So it's just a JSON file.
Is this a Chrome-only thing?
MATT GAUNT: No, no.
This is all the standard
space, so basically any browser
can look for this link rel tag
that links to your manifest
JSON file, at that
point they can parse it
and it's just going to--
you have certain things
to find for then browsers
to take it all out.
ADDY OSMANI: Right.
So the manifest lets
me customize my icons.
What other stuff can
I configure in there?
MATT GAUNT: So, you can
define short name, which
would be the text
underneath your icon
that you'd normally see.
Theme color, which Chrome
uses, is like the URL color
along the URL bar.
Background color is
for the splash screen.
So, if you have that add to
home screen, then click on it,
it'll launch and basically
while Chrome's loading, what
you can do is show a
splash screen that's
like a solid color and then
have an icon on top of it
along with the text.
So background color does that.
You've got an array
of icons, so again,
depending on what the browser
want's to use the icon for,
it will just pick
the best size for it.
Start URL is super awesome.
What that is, is basically--
you remember back
in the day we used to have
add to home screen in Chrome?
It was like hidden in the menu.
ADDY OSMANI: Yeah.
MATT GAUNT: So, what
that would always do
is whatever page you're on
that is where you will get
pointed when you click on
the icon for the home screen.
Start URL let's you
define where that is now.
So, if someone was in the middle
of a blog article, clicked
on add to home screen, now
you can say, actually, just
go to the home of the blog.
Then you've got display.
Display is basically rather
than launch in browser mode,
you can say actually I
want it to go full screen.
ADDY OSMANI: Oh, so
you can launch it full
screen the same way that a
native app might look like,
right?
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, exactly.
But, alongside that there
is, also, in the spec,
orientations.
So you could theoretically lock
it to portrait or landscape.
ADDY OSMANI: Oh,
cool, so for games
that's particularly useful.
MATT GAUNT: Yeah, if you want to
do like forced-- thumb sticks.
The nice thing,
especially, I was
going to say with the Start
URL, you can actually then add
the query parameter,
so then you can track
how many people are using it.
ADDY OSMANI: Ah.
MATT GAUNT: So, like
home screen equals true.
And then analytics
would just show you.
ADDY OSMANI: Cool.
MATT GAUNT: So that's
pretty much the bulk of it.
ADDY OSMANI: Nice.
Is there-- if I wanted
to like validate
that I've got a legit manifest,
is there are tool I can use
for that?
MATT GAUNT: Yes,
someone has built
a web app manifest validator.
I think DevTools were
also going to do it
so you can like force
a download the manifest
and get DevTools to parse it.
ADDY OSMANI: I believe
we mentioned as much
in Totally Tooling Tears.
MATT GAUNT: But I haven't
actually used it yet, myself.
And, admittedly, if you don't
use something like that,
it's kind of hard to figure out
whether it's working or not.
So those are well
worth checking out.
ADDY OSMANI: OK, so we
talked about the web app
manifest, the manifest
validator, for checking out,
DevTools is looking at it.
Are there docs on this
available as well?
MATT GAUNT: The best
thing to look at
is [INAUDIBLE] blog post.
It covers example manifests, how
do I get it to the HTML page,
and then how to
debug it as well.
So that's probably the best bet.
ADDY OSMANI: Sweet.
MATT GAUNT: And plus
it's in web starter kit,
and a whole other host of
the projects that we do.
[MUSIC PLAYING]